The whole idea of the team project is to use what we learned in this course to solve some interesting and important problems. I will encourage you to define what is interesting and important from your business perspective. Team member may come from different background: if you are strong with business - try to contribute on business perspective, if you are strong in coding - try to contribute on coding.

Team link (Links to an external site.): Teams are randomly formed - To work with any type of person in a team is an important ability.
Project requirements
Dataset: Use suggested datasets or any large scale dataset
Environment: Use AWS EMR and other AWS services
Programming Language: Use Spark with Python
Functional Requirements
Ingest: Ingest dataset to Hdfs or S3 and save as Parquet format.
Basic statistics and analysis of the ingested dataset and display (use Jupyter notebook or other type of visualization)
Others: You guys to define what do you want to achieve in requirement phase.
Performance Requirements
Your applications should shows horizontal scale (i.e. when we adding more nodes the cluster, the processing should be faster also)
Timeline
Requirement phase (Due April 12th): team discuss functional requirements and come up with requirement document to define what you want to accomplish. Things to do:
Connect: connect team members through email. Create slack team channels.
Setup: Join Github classroom (https://github.com/MSBX5420 (Links to an external site.)), join aws classroom (check your aws classroom to join) 
Discuss: Generate one page (or more thorough) spec documents to layout functional and non-functional requirements etc.
Submit: Create project Github repo inside Github classroom and check in the requirement spec document.
Design, Development and Test (Due April 25th)
Use Agile development to have several iterations of design, development and test.
Submit: Check in your design doc and code to Github repo.
Deployment (Due April 28th)
Deploy your program to a larger cluster.
Presentation (Due April 28th)
Present your work in class
Suggested DataSets
COVID-19 datasets (such as https://www.kaggle.com/ryanxjhan/cbc-news-coronavirus-articles-march-26 (Links to an external site.))
Weather - (such as ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/gsod) (Links to an external site.)
AWS environment
AWS classroom. Everyone has $50 credit and you can create small cluster for prototype.
Leeds AWS Cluster: Leeds school created a AWS account for us. Attached is the key pair file. To ssh to the EMR master node (ssh -i ./Leed_HadoopKeypair.pem hadoop@ec2-52-13-183-139.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com)
How to Score
50%. Activities to show your leadership and contribution: I will check your check in history in Github Repo. Your code review comments to others. Your slack channel messages etc.
50%. Your project work will be also judged by other classmates during project presentation. (like what we did for class presentation). 
